Flight, the magic power that lifts man above the ground into a third dimension of reality.
A man's reach should exceed his grasp, said Robert Browning, or what's the heaven for?
Always man looked at the heavens and reached for flight.
Icarus, the legendary man who first dared to fly, was doomed, but the dream persisted.
To almost everything man made, he gave imaginary wings to ships, chairs,
horseless carriages as if he asked that they would somehow fly.
But the forces of gravity were stubborn.
An early success was reported by Alexander Graham Bell in 1896.
I witnessed, he said, a remarkable experiment with Professor Langley's erodrome under
Potomac River.
He resembled an enormous bird soaring in the air.
When the steam gave out the propellers which had moved it, stopped, and the hole instead
of tumbling down, settled as slowly and as gracefully as it is possible for any bird to
do it.
Then two brothers, Orville Wright and Wilbur Wright of Dayton, Ohio, presented to the
commissioner of patents a petition, praying for the grant of letters of patent for an alleged
new and useful improvement in flying machines.
In December 1903, they telegraphed home to report success.
Four flights Thursday morning, all against 21 mile wind, started from level with engine
power alone, average speed through air 31 miles in form press, home for Christmas.
Engroge and Ospasels can blur the memory of the chilly December day, two shivering bicycle
mechanics from Dayton, Ohio, first felt their home made contraption whittled out of
acoustics, gummed together with Einstein's bicycle cement, stretched with muslin they'd
sewn on their sisters sewing machine, saw into the air above the dunes and the wide
beach at Kitty Hawk.
Years before that flight at Kitty Hawk, a Frenchman, Louis Mouillard, predicted when the
first fear has been conquered, when the horror of empty space has been mastered through
familiarity with it, intelligent man, after having reproduced all the gates of the bird,
will want to improve upon them.
And he did, and a vast love affair developed between man and his flying machine.
It was an age of heroes and heroic flights, records were set only to fall and be replaced,
records for speed, altitude, distance.
Greatest of all, the record flight made by a young American in 1927.
Paris, May 26, 10 o'clock struck, a sort of shiver went through the crowd.
All of a sudden the thousands were electrified by the sound of a motor, and turning we saw
just as if thrown on a silver screen, a white grey monoplane, 20 feet from the ground,
and softly settling, a new age was born.
A bird Leonardo da Vinci observed is an instrument working according to mathematical law, which
instrument it is within the capacity of man to reproduce with all its movements.
According to mathematical law, today the art of flying has become the science of aeronautics,
as man studies the phenomena and the laws of flight, step by experimental step.
The first successful planes only the Beres theory gave birth.
In just a few years aeronautics moved to flight at supersonic speeds, as research planes
touched the dark edge of space.
A instant progress, a flashing red warning light, a massive wind generator begins to turn.
Through a labyrinth of pipes and tubes, a surge of air accelerates.
In the test section, several times the speed of sound, instruments sense the reactions, forces,
pressures, dynamics, temperatures, torrents of data.
Computers store airplane designs as mathematical models, displayed under manned in Beres' attitudes.
Tiny currents race through a maze of circuitry.
Research data stored, searched, and analyzed in milliseconds.
The designers' imagination interacting with the electronic brain.
The first time the machine was discovered, the first time the machine was discovered,
the first time the machine was discovered, the first time the machine was discovered,
In the creative dialogue between man and machine, successive steps are recorded by computer-directed plotting machines.
The
mathematical models translated into wind tunnel models of titanium and steel, the loop
the
As a concept matures, research aircraft add flight experience and verify the design,
the interaction of parts during all phases of flight.
The optimum compromise is the mature design.
As aviation more and more becomes an inescapable part of modern life, researchers turn to a broad
range of problems.
How to reduce jet engine noise?
How to make runways safer?
The turbulent wakes left in the sky by large planes.
How to build stronger and safer airplanes.
Shock waves and the sonic boom.
Flight experience remains crucial.
In various test programs, airplanes of many kinds are used to verify and improve design concepts.
As our cities grow and expand, it becomes ever more difficult to get from place to place.
In actual flight and in tests, concepts for short and vertical take-off and landing are developed.
Such airplanes may link downtown to downtown, city to airport and town to country.
Continent to continent, research programs investigate flight at ever greater speeds, ever higher
altitudes.
New York to Paris in two hours.
New York to Tokyo in six.
Quiet as safer and more efficient as time and distance shrink.
Only a few decades since Skitty Hawk.
The airplanes of tomorrow fly and wind tunnels today at six, eight, ten times the speed of
sound.
More and more people fly.
More often and more planes to more places, millions today, tens of millions tomorrow.
The greatest migration in history.
The future of aviation.
Will it bring more crowding, pollution, noise, or?
Will it bring us closer together into the family of man?
Computers and wind tunnels, circuits and switches, dials and gauges, new tools for research, and
man the designer looking into the future.
Research today is solving tomorrow's problems to fulfill the promise of flight, a new freedom
for man.
A man's reach should exceed his grasp, the long impossible dream to cross the threshold
of space has become reality.
As this mission unfolds, it carries with it the dreams of centuries, the science of
300 years and a decade of experience in space flight.
Sputnik the first satellite.
Man himself, Yuri Gagarin, Alan Shepard, John Glenn, Valentina Tereshkova, a woman in
space, man walks in space, the intricate ballet of rendezvous and docking.
Space, a new field for science.
Sense-saws pointed at the Earth, the Sun, the stars.
Weather surveillance, communications, agriculture, earth resources, and many other fields benefit
from satellite research.
Before man went to the moon, unmanned spacecraft made the voyage.
Luna and Lunic, Ranger and Sevea, camera shutters clicking from lunar orbiters to map the
moon and select landing signs.
In the long period of research and development that led to the landing on the moon, each step
to be taken on the way and on the moon itself was carefully rehearsed.
Here men from the planet Earth first set foot upon the moon, July 1969, A.D., it was a small
step, a giant leap, they came in peace for all mankind.
The astronauts found, as astronomer Fred Whipple had predicted, a sublime desolation.
To this strange world they came as explorers and scientists.
There had been concern about man's ability to work in the weak lunar gravity, but the
astronauts reported, there seems to be no difficulty in moving around here and we suspect
it's even easier than the simulations of 1 6 G that we performed in various simulators
on the ground.
Man comes to the moon with questions, questions he asks of the soil, the rocks, and the terrain,
of the things he sees and experiences and records.
And he asks, with the instruments he leaves behind.
Information radioed back to Earth may answer age-old questions, what is the origin, the evolution
of the moon, the Earth, the solar system?
New questions arise, the moon becomes a laboratory, scientists of many nations share in its
discoveries.
A sublime desolation, a laboratory for science, it is in truth for all mankind.
The Earth is a laboratory for science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science
Science, science, science, science science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science, science
Constantine Silkotsky was a shy deaf school teacher and one of the pioneers of space science.
Earth, he said, is the cradle of the mind, but one cannot live in the cradle forever.
To leave the cradle, new and more efficient concepts of spaceflight are being developed.
A space shuttle system, spacecraft which will operate in space and in the atmosphere.
Return to Earth to land on runways and be used again.
Space stations will be scientific outposts in Earth orbit, platforms for instruments to survey the Earth and observe the heavens and laboratories for the space technology of tomorrow.
Teams of scientists and engineers will live and work here for long periods of time.
Looking at the heavens, man asks the age-old question, is anyone there?
The reason for going to Mars really is to get on the surface of the planet, right?
We're interested in how the planet was formed, where it came from in the first place.
What is the physical environment of the planet?
And of course the by-life.
He's their life on the planet.
Does the planet tell us anything about where how wind life begins?
The voices of scientists, geologists, meteorologists, biologists, mapping the exploration of another planet with project biking.
An unmanned space probe landing on Mars, a robot laboratory to conduct experiments and look for life.
When you think about how to look for life, you do what every human being does,
who's ever been alone on a desert. The first thing he does, he opens his eyes and he looks around.
And he looks with the experience that he's had for the length of his life.
He tries to see if there's a shrub or a bush or a rattle or something, something to give him some credibility to it.
How about red grass?
It's just red grass on Earth, that's no challenge.
The life detection experiment, it's really four experiments.
And because life is such a complicated process, the more criteria of biological activity we can look for, the more likely we are to find it.
For example, there's the experiment that deals with photosynthesis, where you actually inject some carbon dioxide and see whether the carbon dioxide is picked up by the sunlight.
But when people are introduced into an experiment, they're so simple.
But think of the difficulty replacing the human and trying to make a robot, a machine that goes someplace and does something for us.
We're taking what are very simple, laboratory routines, and we have to do all of this in a completely automated mode.
But the thing that really turns me on is the idea that there might be a separate and distinct origin of life on Mars.
If you really had it happen twice in this tiny little sun solar system that we have, what universe must be teeming with life.
And if that's true, who are we to say that we're the smart ones?
We may be somewhere in the middle, one is always in the middle of some curve.
It's like the days of the Vikings, the real Vikings. It's an exploratory program.
And new questions always produce more new questions, and this is how you learn.
And beyond this tiny little sun solar system, islands floating in the great void is anyone there.
Nebulae, clusters, galaxies, father and father. But where man has never been and may in fact never go, his mind has already reached out to ask questions.
Digital computers spin out data, gravitation, velocity, energy, mass. The life cycles of universes compressed into minutes.
As man looks outward into the darkness of space and finds the light of new knowledge, he sees and begins to understand himself.
Archibald McLeish comments to see the earth as it truly is small and blue and beautiful in that eternal silence where it floats is to see ourselves as riders on the earth together.
Brothers on that bright loveliness in the eternal cold. Brothers who know now that they are truly brothers.
And Qing Da Ji, slides into a heaven's warm air.
One brave boy knocks on basin, continues, driven by the god Winter demon.
echts
la un
I'm Jim Bernett and I'm your host for the next several weeks.
Our series is the airplane and NASA.
We'll trace how NASA, building on the previous work of NACA, the National Advisory Committee
for Aeronautics, has played an important role in the field of Aeronautics.
In this, our first show, a prominent figure in the world of aviation, Paul Garber, shares
some of his experiences with us.
He takes us back to the very first days of Powered Plate, and he gives valuable insight
into the growth of airplane technology.
In later programs, we pick up the NASA Aeronautical story in the 60s and move chronologically
from then towards the present.
Now let's pick up the Garber interview as he talks about the films he's made on the
history of flight.
I started off with natural flight because flight began with nature.
Two hundred and fifty million years ago, with the first bug that flew, the Megadora.
Two hundred and fifty million years ago.
And then, after natural flight, he made a magician flight as the next one.
Man's journey to fly, as shown in his imagination, where he couldn't make the thing, but he
could think about it.
It's quite significant that he thought that angels could fly and that the guards could
fly because he thought that the guards could do anything.
Take Mercury or Hermes, the messenger of the guards, who had wings, little things on his
feet, not his helmet.
Not much very powerful wing loading, but it was an idea, quite important, that man had
eyes.
Everything starts with a good idea.
So the imaginative flight, that's with religion, fantasy, fiction, poetry, art.
And then the kite, the boomerang, then DaVinci.
Then, the balloon was the first lift man into the air, that was November 21, 1783, the
Mocophie in France, Paris.
And then, airships, which are power balloons, and then the beginnings of heavy-length air
crypt, going back to Landoin, Bienvenu, 1784, were the first thing that ever raised
his self by his own self-contained power, first step beyond the kite.
A kite is far more than a toy.
It can be a very interesting lesson in basic aerodynamics.
It can show you things about center of thrust, center of gravity, and center of the pressure.
And it can tell you things about dihedral for its lateral stability and of keel service
for longitudinal stability.
It's a very good teaching device.
I saw it in the newspaper where the light was flying at Fort Myra, this picture of the
airplane and the statement about the flight.
My husband followed if I could have car-fear to go to Fort Myra the next day.
He gave me 50 cents or whatever it was.
The next morning or next afternoon it was because it said the flying was late in the afternoon
when the wind had died down.
So I went over to Fort Myra.
The man with a trotting line was caught in distance away from the fort, but I ran all the
way.
And as I came to the fort and went through the gate, I could hear this sound.
And as I passed the first short block and then came out where the huge field was, where
they had the archivalry and cavalry exercises.
Here looking down I saw the sound, the sort of this noise, and it was this airplane.
I'd never been before seen an airplane, I've seen pictures of them.
But here was this enormous thing, this great big kite with two men in it.
And the propeller is turning over and the engine was sound and coming towards us.
As I looked at it, I'd even back like that and felt down flat but continued to look at
it and then got up and watched it as a flew around and around and around the field going
this way I've ever.
And then finally came into a landing.
Now that memory has been enhanced by later knowledge so that I know now that it was on
the 27th of July, 1999 because that was the day of the duration of flight.
And the 30th was the day of the distance flight.
That was the first round trip flight in America when the orbit right flew from Fort Meyer to
Alexandria around Souter-Sea along back again, ten miles in all.
Yes, that remains to my mind as well I can look right through a 747 and see the light
flyer.
And then I was further astonished when I saw the airplane again in the Smithsonian where
it had been placed in 1911.
So many times I would go there just to see the airplane once more.
One day when I was again visiting the Smithsonian, I saw a one-top of a case, this rather large
scale model of a Shannouge glider.
I learned later that Octav Shannouge himself had given it to the Smithsonian, following
its use in a display in 1906 and with the first air show in America.
So there it was.
And I got permission to go up on a ladder where the man was peeing in the case.
And I looked at it more closely and see how it was made and get an idea about his dimensions.
I went on home and made a copy of it.
It's about Yase Ben and about Yay Cord and had an extended boom arrangement with a
quadriff oil tail on it.
I made a copy of it.
My mother helped me to tack the cloth on.
She had what was called chints in those days.
Today they called it polished cotton.
She had a whole boat of red chints.
We covered it with that and then I went out in the backyard and assembled it.
And then my model airplane club friends got together.
We just flew it over the fence on the Plahill to a place called the Red Lot.
It was just red gravel, a lot of this red clay.
And three big trees at the back end of it, we chose a windy day and I got in this glider
or on it or under it, had my arms over the lingerons and my hands grasping the two
struts here.
And we had two lines going out from it with my friends on each line and a good wind.
And then I hovered to them to pull and I began running with this thing.
And sure enough I began to rise and they were so surprised to see me rise.
They stopped running to look.
And of course we stood back on the glider's tail and my tail and took a couple of weeks
for repairs to both of us.
But then we went again to the same location and they kept running that time.
They ran to the end of the field and then down this rather steep far end of it.
And then I glided above them and then over this lower section and across the trees and
let it in the field on the far side.
And today when I'm in that area I tell my friends, I flew over those trees.
The trees are way up there now.
They're down here.
But I mean the ballot doesn't utilize in this thing and then one of the other folks
wanted to try it and he cracked it up.
But that was the first time I was airborne, my team 15.
Air mail had begun at the Porto Grounds in Washington on May 15, 1918.
That is as a continuously scheduled public service between six stations.
And then air mail before that with the carrier pigeons and bulldoons and the pioneers of flight.
But the first time that it became a public service started what we now have today was this
route between Washington and New York.
And the army began it on May 15 and then turned it over to the post office on August 12.
And I signed up when I got my discharge on December 14th.
I was a professional discharge at is and then was signed in on the 17th, which has happened
to be the 15th anniversary of the right for this first flight.
And I was at College Park at the big field there.
And I was by no means a route pilot.
I have such admiration for those who were.
I wouldn't elute them by myself.
But I learned to fly at that time because many of those pilots had been instructors and
they gave me some stick time once in a while.
And I sold on the Fourth of July the holiday of 1919.
Sold it in the Curtis Jenny.
And I helped with the mail.
I was very proud that to do my part.
I'd do anything.
They call me Chief Slave.
And I'd do anything.
I'd gas up the ships or check the tool bag and taxi out the airplane that is run alongside
of it or grab it as it came in, up the whole to wing.
And the mechanics work.
Worked on the engines on the airframes.
I was handy.
You know Paul, you've been at the Smithsonian Institution since 1920.
When you first joined the Smithsonian, what were some of your first duties?
I was called preparator.
That means one who prepares things for display.
And my job was to repair things that had broken.
And there were many things.
In fact, that's how I got the idea that I might work there.
I'd been to the Air Vale Service prior to that.
But then I came for another position.
After I left the Air and mail, we loved it.
Because they were moving to Chicago.
And I was to be based in Washington.
My father was not well.
Asked me to stay in this area.
But at Smithsonian, there were many things that were broken.
So wanting another job and loving that institution as I always have, I asked if a permission, if
a job might be available.
And I met Luther Reed, who had been language-cheap mechanic on his large air drum.
And on the small air drums also.
You see, Langley was the secretary of the Smithsonian.
That means the head.
And the Langley Air drum, unmanned of 1896, was the world's first ever heavier than aircraft
to be mechanically powered and to fly.
And then, later on, the manned aircraft did not fly.
But the unmanned one did.
So Luther Reed was language-cheap mechanic.
And he was still living when I used to go there just to see the museum.
I came to meet him.
He loved clocks also.
I tried to get there around 12 o'clock when all the clocks were striking.
And I'd take him to my screen.
So he died in March.
I got his job in June, June 1, 1920.
And my duties were to repair things, a preparatory.
I'd repair anything.
But then my interest was in aeronautics.
And whenever I could finish one job and had nothing assigned to me, I'd work on something
aeronautical.
So this was a three-month appointment.
And it began to run out.
And the boss was away on vacation.
So finishing everything that I've been told to do, up to the time when I, with my last
day of bored, had arrived, I then continued to work there, but making this model of
the aeronautics event she's manual on a thupter.
That's a wing flipper.
On a thupter, on a from bird, and thupter from wing.
Bird wing job.
And the aeronautics event she was my hero.
I'd always admire the man.
I had the greatest mind I think it ever existed.
And he was interested in flight.
So DaVinci marks the separation between the crazy ideas, like two bottles that were,
they thought those were magic to arise, and heart-assing birds, when human power was applied
in a sensible manner to operating an aircraft.
And I learned more about this from the librarian of the Smithsonian and then made this model,
just on my own, because I wanted to house something there of my own that I had made just
to, so my grandchildren when I came there in later years.
But the secretary, who was then Dr. Walkett.
In fact, Walkett was really the founder of what you are here.
He was the founder of NACA, which is now NASA.
Dr. Walkett saw this model admired it and gave me an extension, which has lasted for
61 and some months years.
So I was a model maker, I was a model repairer.
I'd do anything that had to be done to maintain the collection.
But then, when I'd helped to get the spirit of St. Louis, that brought so much attention
to the agricultural collections of the museum, that it was decided to have a section of aeronolics
now is pretty in charge of it.
So over your 61 years, Paul, no doubt you've met and talked with many famous aviators.
I'm going to mention a few names and maybe if you could just kind of highlight which
you remember about each one.
Charles Lindbergh.
I've known other than as an airmail pilot because I've been in the airmail myself.
And I'd known of him with his service on this Chicago St. Louis route.
Because he was a very fine pilot.
I love him through mutual friends.
And then I came to know him after he had agreed to give the airplane to us.
I met him in Memphis when he was on his circuit tour of the United States.
I met him when he came to the museum to discuss it.
Of course, I met him when he brought it to us on April 30, 1928.
I met him when he visited the museum many times.
Yes, I knew him quite well.
He always called me Mama first name.
I was supposed to say, I forget to call him Slim.
What about Orville Wright?
He came to the museum in 1923.
He wanted to see the Langley Air Drome and consider it aerodynamically and also to see whether
he had been repaired as it is in its original condition.
Of course, the Langley Air Drome, the large one, was tested twice October 7th and December 8th of 1903.
Neither time to deflie.
The first time, the front king post caught on the launching gear and pulled the wing down this way with a negative angle of incidence just went into the water.
The second time, the rear guy broke to the stabilizer, the aircraft went up like this on its back and again in the water.
We don't know but the third time was never tested again until it was tested after it had been repaired and modified by Glenn Curtis.
And Orville Wright objected to the belief that the flight in 1914 proved that it might have flown in 1903.
And he wanted to see the airplane again to remind himself about his details. I met him then.
And I showed him a display I'd made because the 20th anniversary of the Kitty Hawk flight of 1903 was coming up again.
I made this display. I made a scale model about the Kitty Hawk flyer. I had photographs of himself and his brother.
I had an example of the Langley battle was given to him and his brother in 1988.
Early recognition of them may have been the first in America.
And then I had some other photographs of their gliders and wind tunnel.
So I showed that Orville Wright and he was rather pleased to see it.
And then he made a few comments of additional items that I needed. I asked him for things that I knew I wanted.
He was very gracious and gave me a number of photographs for it.
Made some suggestions about the model and let's start a present relationship.
One of my Glenn Curtis. Of course I knew I've been from the very early days.
But in 1925 I was at the air racers in New York City on Long Island.
And he was there with the Curtis racers which were beautiful aircraft.
And the Curtis R3C2 was being flown by Sy Bettis and with Jimmy Durittle as ultimate pilot I remember.
And then our Williams was flying a similar airplane. Sy Bettis won that year.
But as a contrast between the then current Curtis racers and the Curtis aircraft of the early days there was a Curtis pusher.
Which was flown by Wittacosta and then as it came back and was put up here on the line, the Curtis sat at it.
And after his photograph was taken I woke up, introduced myself, said I was from the museum.
I said would you consider giving us a airplane to the Smithsonian?
Well he said I hadn't thought of that. Well it said you're going to do something with it.
And if you keep on flying it you'll bust it up about giving it to us.
He called a Frank Russell who was standing by. He says Frank Paul Garver wants this airplane for his museum in Washington.
And Frank Russell says that's a good idea.
What about Wiley Post?
Yes of course everybody knew him, the wonderful flyer that he is with only one eye.
And a magnificent example of 42 determinations part of the handicap.
Wonderful example.
I go sometimes to see my Gerdaardor who'd become an invalid.
As I see these persons there in this hospital, I wish for something that would close them to somehow try to overcome their handicap.
But Wiley Post is a magnificent example, the one who was handicap by the loss of an eye.
But he overcame that.
One can, as I found out one time when I had an eye injury, one can regain somewhat perspective.
That's what the two eyes give you of course.
To some extent you get back a relationship of how far things are.
But he was able to fly an airplane and to land it and fly it under the most difficult conditions.
Yes I knew him.
But I knew him because of who he was. And I asked him for the Winnie Mae one time over to Hoover Field.
Well he says, I'm still using it.
Well I said, they'll come at time when you'll be turning it in on something else and like to have it for the museum.
Meanwhile I was offered other lucky Vegas like Wilkins or the one that was being flown by St. Avall.
But I kept on after the Winnie Mae of Wiley Post.
We finally got it.
And I would never have wished to have it the way we did. That was after his death.
And then Mrs. Post was gracious to give it to us with a special arrangement by Josh Lee of Oklahoma, then in Congress.
Another character on the pass is Roscoe Turner with his lion Gilmore?
Yes.
I think I met him first when I was anxious to illustrate the beginnings of commercial aviation in the world.
Aviation, that is of course era stash and was the first commercial that's light of the air.
But aviation commercially began in Florida in January 11, 1914 with a Benoit flying boat flown by my good friend Tony Janis, who graduated from Tech High School as I did.
Not when I did, I was some years after he.
But he learned to fly at College Park where I did.
And then went with Benoit, that's B-E-N-O-I-S-T.
Tom Benoit used to call his factory the Benoistory because person's calling Benoit.
But it was a Benoit flying boat flown by Tony Janis that was the world's first ever commercial.
That was up for about three months between St. Petersburg and Tampa, which was across the hoop with his narrow bridge.
In those days, those eight miles were spanned by air.
And I wanted to represent the museum.
I wanted to make the scale model of that flying boat.
And then when I was given the model by the one who sponsored it, then Roscoe Turner was in the group.
What about a million-year heart?
I saw her twice.
I was at Muston Field at Philadelphia.
That's the Navy field up there.
When she came in, had a flat tire.
And I helped a little bit get it repaired.
And I wrote great trophies, a little flat tire, a way in, bring it back, fixed up.
A very gracious lady.
And then I saw her one time at the White House when many famous pilots were being received by the President.
What about Howard Hughes?
When he made his marvelous flight in 1935, established a new transcontinental record, I wrote to him for his airplane.
And he was reluctant to give it to us, and that's me had a place to put it on display.
But that time we had no space for it.
He said he would keep it until we didn't have a space for it.
And one day after the war at World War II, he was walking toward me up Pennsylvania Avenue, and I recognized him.
And I turned and got in step with him, introduced myself.
I said, I'm the one that asked you for that airplane of yours.
Where do we get it?
So you'll get it when you have a place to show it.
Of course we do have a place to show it now. It's beautiful.
I think it's the most beautiful airplane we have.
It's just as smooth as a baby's cheek, the lovely streamlining and craftsmanship on it.
He says, in fact, I might fly it there because I still think it's faster than these jet jobs.
Of course he never did.
What about Lincoln Ellsworth?
He made an Arctic and had Arctic flights.
He was with Amonson in the Norge.
That was the Italian airship that went over the North Pole.
And then he became interested in Antarctic flying and obtained a beautiful airplane,
which was one of the very first to be skin-stressed, the North of Gamma.
I wanted that technically because of its characteristics and historically because of its flight to this.
I asked him for that.
He said, yes, but it'll still be my airplane because I still want to fly it.
And he says, keep it in good shape for me.
So I would. I'd pull the prop through of you now and then. I'd check the battery.
It was still fly, but it's here today.
I'm so impressed by what has been.
When I think that when I was nine years old, I saw a white fly.
When I was 69 years old, I saw a man step on the moon by television,
making it all the more wonderful.
And the marvelous things you've done here in NASA with this shuttle
and the other tremendous exploits of going to the moon, that is the future.
And you can tell that better than I.
I can't predict the future. I'm too astounded at the past.
That's my job. I'm supposed to be historian, Emeritus of the National Airspace Museum.
I don't think there's anyone in the world that can say, hi, flight, like you can.
Would you be willing to say it for us?
I wish McGee were here to say it. He's the one who wrote it.
He was the victim of it.
He was running into another airplane and World War II crashed.
Oh, I have slipped the story bonds of Earth and danced the skies on laughter-sovered wings.
Sunward I've climbed and joined the tumbling birth of sunspit clouds
and done a hundred things you had uptrend of.
Wealed and sword and swung high on the sun at heavens.
Covering there, I chased the feeding clouds along
and flung my eaglett through footless halls of air.
Up, up the high devious burning blue.
I've topped the snow-clad heights with easy grease,
wherever log or even eagle flew.
And while the silent lifting mind, I've drawn the high untrusted sanctities of space
put out my hand and touched the face of God.
Well, Gabber has the unique distinction of having lived through much of a century
that saw great advancements in aeronautical technology.
He has seen orbital right-fly during the earliest days of the airplane
and he has seen Neil Armstrong walk on the moon.
In the time separating those two legendary events,
the United States has been steadily advancing the field of aeronautics.
In 1958, we witnessed the birth of NASA.
In the 1960s, NASA comes of age.
However, before we concentrate on that period of time,
we look at some of the developments in people responsible for the progress
made in aircraft performance.
This is the subject of next week's show, America's Wings.
Till then, I'm Jim Burnett.
I'm Jim Burnett.